We're going to talk about
environment variables, again,
it's really important I must emphasize
to you that you only do this for
environment variables you're
okay ending up on the client.
You do not want to do this for
all environment variables or
whatever cuz that could be really bad.
So let's first talk about the problem,
what are we trying to accomplish here?
So I'm going to come into, yeah,
let's go into admin, index, that'll work.
And we'll say process env ADMIN_EMAIL.
Did I spell that right, EMAIL?
There we go, right?
So that's what I, my objective is
admin email should go right here.
And again, I've got this environment
variable configured in here.
Remix automatically reads that .env file,
in production you should have these set as
environment variables in whatever
hosting provider you're using.
However, every one of
them does it differently,
you have to look up how they do it.
But during development,
the .env file works great.
And so I just want to print
out what is the admin email?
So if I come over here,
go to admin, the root route,
I'm gonna get unexpected
error process is not defined.
What garbage is this?
And what's really annoying is,
if I look at the server rendered stuff,
admin email is right there.
So it actually works.
If I turn off JavaScript, it works.
I dehanced my project.
Remember that?
Yeah, so the problem is that
the browser does not have process.
It has a processing
instruction apparently.
[LAUGH] But it doesn't have process so
that is this is not going to work
not in your React components.
Now it would work in a loader again
like that works just fine and
so what you could do is you
could say export to a function
that's a loader and
return a JSON response with adminEmail.
And we'll bring in JSON from remix node.
Cool, and then we can say,
useLoaderData Admin email.
And there we go.
Now it works out an email.
That's great.
However, I don't wanna do that.
You didn't even wanna wait for
me to type all that.
I could tell.
You're like man I'm going
to type the whole thing.
Yes, I did.
And it was not cool.
I don't want to do that.
And the reason I don't want to do that is
because, well, here it's bringing back.
This will never change through the entire
lifetime of while this application is
running until the next deploy or
until I change the environment variable.
That value won't change.
So why do I care to send that
to the client like this?
I could just have that, or
why do I have it as part of this loader?
If I anywhere else that I want to do
this I'd have to have another loader for
that, it'd be really annoying
I don't want to do that.
Because this doesn't change during
the lifetime of the users experience on
the app, I think that it's it would
actually be better to instead
just have this be global.
You typically don't do global stuff in
web apps it's not the best to just say
let's global everything because if
those things can change now you have to
start talking about subscriptions and
render and use mutable data source.
So yeah, we don't wanna do that typically,
but for this,
I think it totally makes sense.
And I have a convention that
I really like for this.
And that convention involves
a global env variable.
So, again, because this runs both
on the client and on the server,
I need to have a way to define a global
env for both the client and the server.
So, let's do the server first because
this is gonna blow up on the server side
as well.
If we look at our console output,
we're gonna get yeah,
just a ton of nonsense reference
error env is not to find, so
it's let's deal with
the server side first.
For the server,
you have this entry.server file.
That is the first part of your
code that's going to run or
get imported when your server starts up,
okay?
Now again, I probably should mention
that we're using the remix server module
which has an express server underneath
the hood that is serving all these pages.
You can actually integrate remix
within another express server or
within a fastly or
faster phi I always forget or a COA or
like whatever other node
framework that you want to.
And they're all going to
be a little bit different.
But this entry server typically is
going to be the first bit of your code
that's imported.
And so
here I can say global.env equals admin,
email process env admin email, okay?
And so now my server renderer is going
to work and actually you see a flash,
do you see that?
It flashes for a second before hydration
kicks in because now the client is busted.
But that server renderer totally works
because we now have that defined.
Where is that?
There it is.
Great, so now on the client side,
we have well,
you might think, well,
it'll just be the entry.client.
Well, yes, this is the first bit of your
code that actually executes on the client.
However, this only executes on the client.
So you can't say window.env
equals anything with
process env because again wait a second,
okay?
[LAUGH] Process is not defined.
I'm not sure why that what it's okay.
Anybody, do you know what it is?
>> Servers working.
>> The server works, but the reason that
it's not blowing up hydration is because
this line blows up before we can hydrate.
[LAUGH] So it's actually not hydrating.
So that's fun.
The whole app actually still works
even though we're not hydrating.
That's hilarious.
That's fun.
Okay, so yes, this is not going to work
if you wanna have JavaScript to work.
So what are we gonna do?
Well, we actually are going
to use a loader for this.
We're gonna go into our root.
And we'll have an ENV as prose or
admin email process.env.ADMIN_EMAIL.
And now I can get my data
from use loader data.
And I'm going to add a script
with dangerously set inner HTML.
I'm going to generate JavaScript,
window.env equals JSON stringify data.env.
There we go.
You got a format code like a Neanderthal.
Okay, now we have a global
env in the client.
And we have a global env on the server
type scripts and I'm happy but
we can fix that later.
Ta-da, admin email and
no full page refreshes anymore, hooray!
Okay, so quick review for
the server side, we can go in,
in our entry server say global.ENV.
And so
now when this code runs on the server,
that server renders just
fine because it's on global.
That's how you do it in node.
And then on the client,
we're going into our app right here.
And we're going to use our loader to
get it from the server into the client.
Interestingly, you could actually say,
global.env right here,
and that would also work.
Here you go because it's global, cool.
All right, great, so let's make
TypeScript not super angry about this.
I'm going to make a file
called env.server.Ts and
this is going to have a function
called get env and that's going
to return my env and we're going
to export that function so nope.
Thanks though admin email.
There we go.
And so now we can come in here.
We'll say getEnv and
an entry server getEnv.
Okay, pleasure skill is
still not happy about this.
So the next thing we're going to do, I
actually I think I just gave this to you,
because it's kind of TypeScript stuff.
And this is not a TypeScript workshop.
So we'll come over here
to declare global ENV.
So what how do we get the type of the ENV?
We're going to say type ENV
equals type of getEnv and
we want the return type of that.
So return type, nice,
handy generic to get the type of the env.
So now, our env has the admin email.
This is great because in our files where
we want to start referencing this we can
say env.get some autocomplete.
So that's fancy.
But that could be a string or undefined.
In most cases, you're not going to
function properly if your environment
variables are not defined.
So the last thing we're going to do
is say invariant on admin email.
And Admin email is not set.
So now our env will
require the admin email.
And if for some reason that's not defined,
then you'll get an error on startup.
And so that your server won't startup,
won't deploy, and
your old app will still work, hopefully.
The existing deploy should still work,
hopefully, and
everything should be golden.
And now you have a way where you
can anywhere in the app reference
your global environment variables
because you set it to global here, and
you set it to global there.
Again, please don't put like
a ton of nonsense on this object.
It really should just be the stuff
you want in the client, and
just the stuff that doesn't change during
the lifetime of the app should just be
environment variables, okay?
Great, that was fun.
Any questions or
anything before we move on?
>> Is this how you'd recommend
approaching this in production?
Or is it more of a demo and
there's a package plug in that handles
the ENV passing like this for you?
>> Yeah, good question.
So I think at the heart of the question
is, hmm, that seems like a lot of work.
[LAUGH] I'd rather not have
to do that myself at least
I'm not trying to downplay or anything.
I don't think that I would
install a package for
this if it existed just because I don't
think it's that much work myself.
And I'd prefer to have
the code in front of me so
I can modify it as needed without
having to learn some package.
This is absolutely how
I do it in production.
I didn't mention it before, but
my app is 27,000 lines of code and
when we're talking remix,
that's actually pretty significant.
Because Remix is like,
a lot smaller than what I used to write.
So and it works great for me.
So I don't think that I'm unaware
of a package that does this but
really in essence you literally just
have one file that holds a function for
getting the environment variables
you want shared across.
Do you go to your entry server to set this
and then you go to your route to set this
width and then there's a little bit
of work in the loader I suppose.
But other than that that's kind of it so
I'm not sure I would care
to do that any differently.